Updating ECS Fargate/EC2 Documentation (#2859)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/collect/ecs-opentelemetry-data.md

   * `{{region}}`: The region to send the data to.
   * `{{ecsTaskRoleArn}}`: The AWSOTTaskRole ARN.
   * `{{ecsExecutionRoleArn}}`: The AWSOTTaskExcutionRole ARN.
   * Add an environment variable named AOT_CONFIG_CONTENT.
Select ValueFrom to tell ECS to get the value from the SSM Parameter, and set the value to collector-config (created above)
1. Follow the ECS Fargate setup instructions to [create a task definition][task] using the template.

### Configuring Alloy

Use the following as a starting point for your Alloy configuration:

```
prometheus.scrape "stats" {
  targets    = [
    { "__address__" = "localhost:9779" },
  ]
  metrics_path = "/metrics"
  scheme       = "http"
  forward_to   = [prometheus.remote_write.default.receiver]
}

// additional OTEL config as in [ecs-default-config]
// OTLP receiver
// statsd
// Use the alloy convert command to use one of the AWS ADOT files
// https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/cli/convert/
...

prometheus.remote_write "default" {
  endpoint {
    url = sys.env("PROMETHEUS_REMOTE_WRITE_URL")
      basic_auth {
        username = sys.env("PROMETHEUS_USERNAME")

>         password = sys.env("PROMETHEUS_PASSWORD")

Author: The version without the <> is the actual syntax to copy/paste, it's a reference to a variable name, not to be replaced with something.

      }
  }
}
```

This sets up a scrape job for the container metrics and export them to a prometheus endpoint.

You can create a sample task by completing the following steps (inspired by [the official ADOT doc][adot-doc])

> 1. Create a SSM Parameter Store entry to hold the collector configuration file
> Open the AWS Systems Manager console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an SSM Parameter Store entry to hold the collector configuration file.
   Open the AWS Systems Manager console.
```

Same question as on lines 51/52.

   1. In the AWS Console, choose Parameter Store.

>    1. Choose Create parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Choose *Create parameter*.
```

   1. Create a parameter with the following values:
      

>       ```
>       Name: collector-config
>       Tier: Standard
>       Type: String
>       Data type: Text
>       Value: Copy and paste your custom Alloy configuration file.
>       ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Name: `collector-config`
   * Tier: Standard
   * Type: String
   * Data type: Text
   * Value: Copy and paste your custom {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} configuration file.
```

1. Download the [ECS Fargate][fargate-template] or [ECS EC2][ec2-template] task definition template from GitHub.
1. Edit the task definition template and add the following parameters.
   * `{{region}}`: The region to send the data to.
   * `{{ecsTaskRoleArn}}`: The AWSOTTaskRole ARN.
   * `{{ecsExecutionRoleArn}}`: The AWSOTTaskExcutionRole ARN.

>    * Add an environment variable named ALLOY_CONFIG_CONTENT.
> Select ValueFrom to tell ECS to get the value from the SSM Parameter, and set the value to collector-config (created above).
>    * In the docker configuration, change the Entrypoint to `bash,-c`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Add an environment variable named ALLOY_CONFIG_CONTENT.
   
Select ValueFrom to tell ECS to get the value from the SSM Parameter, and set the value to `collector-config`.

   * In the docker configuration, change the Entrypoint to `bash,-c`
```

   * `{{command}}`: `"echo \"$ALLOY_CONFIG_CONTENT\" > /tmp/config_file && exec alloy run --server.http.listen-addr=0.0.0.0:12345 /tmp/config_file"` *making sure you don't ommit the double quotes around the command*
   * Alloy doesn't currently support collecting container metrics from the ECS metadata endpoint directly, so you need to add a second container for the [prometheus exporter](https://github.com/prometheus-community/ecs_exporter) if needed:

>       1. Add a new container to the task
>       1. Set "ecs-exporter" as container name.
>       1. Set "quay.io/prometheuscommunity/ecs-exporter:latest" as image
>       1. Add tcp/9779 as a port mapping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      1. Add a new container to the task.
      1. Set the container name to `"ecs-exporter"`.
      1. Set the image to `"quay.io/prometheuscommunity/ecs-exporter:latest"`.
      1. Add `tcp/9779` as a port mapping.

```

1. Follow the ECS Fargate setup instructions to [create a task definition][task] using the template.

> ## Collecting EC2 instance metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Collect EC2 instance metrics
```

For ECS Clusters running on EC2, you can collect instance metrics by using AWS ADOT or Alloy in a separate ECS task deployed as a daemon.

### Alloy

You can follow the steps described in [Configure Alloy](#configuring-alloy) above to create another task, with the following changes:

> * Only add the Alloy container, not the prometheus exporter, and run the task as daemon, so it will automatically run one instance per node in your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Only add the {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} container, not the Prometheus exporter, and run the task as daemon, so it will automatically run one instance per node in your cluster.
```

> * Update your Alloy configuration to collect metrics from the instance. Configuration varies depending on the type of EC2 node, refer to the [Alloy documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/collect/) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Update your {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} configuration to collect metrics from the instance.
   The configuration varies depending on the type of EC2 node. Refer to the [`collect`](https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/collect/) documentation for details.
```

### ADOT

> The approach described in [this document](https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/setup/ecs#3-setup-the-adot-collector-for-ecs-ec2-instance-metrics) uses the awscontainerinsightreceiver receiver from the OTEL contribs, included in ADOT out of the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The approach described in [the AWS Otel documentation](https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/setup/ecs#3-setup-the-adot-collector-for-ecs-ec2-instance-metrics) uses the `awscontainerinsightreceiver` receiver from OTel. This receiver is included in ADOT.
```

> Just like described in the [Configuring ADOT](#configuring-adot) section, you need to use a custom configuration SSM Parameter based on the [sample](https://github.com/aws-observability/aws-otel-collector/blob/main/config/ecs/otel-instance-metrics-config.yaml) config file in order to route the telemetry to your final destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to use a custom configuration SSM Parameter based on the [sample](https://github.com/aws-observability/aws-otel-collector/blob/main/config/ecs/otel-instance-metrics-config.yaml) configuration file to route the telemetry to your final destination.
```

## Collecting application telemetry

> To collect metrics and traces emitted by your application, use the OTLP endpoints exposed by the collector side car container regardless of the collector implementation. Just specify `localhost` as the host name, which is default for most instrumentation library and agents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To collect metrics and traces emitted by your application, use the OTLP endpoints exposed by the collector side car container regardless of the collector implementation.
Specify `localhost` as the host name, which is default for most instrumentation library and agents.
```

* Identify where {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} writes received telemetry data.
* Be familiar with the concept of [Components][] in {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}.

## Collect task and container metrics

In this configuration, you add an OTEL collector to the task running your application, and it uses the ECS Metadata Endpoint to gather task and container metrics in your cluster.

You can choose between two collector implementations:

> - AWS supports its own OpenTelemetry collector called ADOT. ADOT has native support for scraping task and container metrics. ADOT comes with default configurations that can be selected in the task definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can use ADOT, the AWS OpenTelemetry collector.
  ADOT has native support for scraping task and container metrics. 
  ADOT comes with default configurations that can be selected in the task definition.
```

We can make this an active statement about the choice.

> - Alloy can also be used as a collector alongside the [Prometheus ECS exporter](https://github.com/prometheus-community/ecs_exporter) which exposes the ECS metadatada endpoint metrics in Prometheus format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can use {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} as a collector alongside the [Prometheus ECS exporter](https://github.com/prometheus-community/ecs_exporter) which exposes the ECS metadatada endpoint metrics in Prometheus format.
```

Same here... small tweak to make it active.

Complete the following steps to create a sample task. Refer to the [ADOT doc][adot-doc] for more information.

1. Create an SSM Parameter Store entry to hold the collector configuration file.
   
   1. Open the AWS Console.
   1. In the AWS Console, choose Parameter Store.
   1. Choose *Create parameter*.
   1. Create a parameter with the following values:
      
      * Name: `collector-config`
      * Tier: Standard
      * Type: String
      * Data type: Text
      * Value: Copy and paste your custom OpenTelemetry configuration file.

1. Download the [ECS Fargate][fargate-template] or [ECS EC2][ec2-template] task definition template from GitHub.
1. Edit the task definition template and add the following parameters.

   * `{{region}}`: The region to send the data to.
   * `{{ecsTaskRoleArn}}`: The AWSOTTaskRole ARN.
   * `{{ecsExecutionRoleArn}}`: The AWSOTTaskExcutionRole ARN.
   * Add an environment variable named AOT_CONFIG_CONTENT.
   Select ValueFrom to tell ECS to get the value from the SSM Parameter, and set the value to `collector-config`.
   
1. Follow the ECS Fargate setup instructions to [create a task definition][task] using the template.

> ### Configure Alloy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure {{% param "PRODUCT_NAME" %}}
```

      }
  }
}
```

This configuration sets up a scrape job for the container metrics and export them to a Prometheus endpoint.

Complete the following steps to create a sample task.

1. Create an SSM Parameter Store entry to hold the collector configuration file.
    
   1. Open the AWS Console.
   1. In the AWS Console, choose Parameter Store.
   1. Choose *Create parameter*.
   1. Create a parameter with the following values:
      
      * Name: `collector-config`
      * Tier: Standard
      * Type: String
      * Data type: Text
      * Value: Copy and paste your custom {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} configuration file.

1. Download the [ECS Fargate][fargate-template] or [ECS EC2][ec2-template] task definition template from GitHub.
1. Edit the task definition template and add the following parameters.

   * `{{region}}`: The region to send the data to.
   * `{{ecsTaskRoleArn}}`: The AWSOTTaskRole ARN.
   * `{{ecsExecutionRoleArn}}`: The AWSOTTaskExcutionRole ARN.
   * Add an environment variable named ALLOY_CONFIG_CONTENT.
      * Select ValueFrom to tell ECS to get the value from the SSM Parameter, and set the value to `collector-config`.

>    * Add environment variables for Prometheus remote write

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Add environment variables for Prometheus remote write:
```
